N VIDIA in Brief
NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing. Today, our technology powers the world’s AI infrastructure,
transforming every industry. Learn more.
Company History Impact by Industry
Founded in 1993, NVIDIA is the world leader in accelerated computing and AI. Automotive
Our invention of the GPU in 1999 sparked the growth of the PC gaming market, NVIDIA powers all 30 of the 30 top autonomous-vehicle data centers
redefined computer graphics, revolutionized accelerated computing, and ignited and enables automakers, suppliers, and robotaxi providers with the
the era of modern AI. Today, NVIDIA is a full-stack AI infrastructure company NVIDIA DRIVE™ AV end-to-end autonomous driving software stack.
powering the world’s AI factories.
AI Factories
Key Stats Over 11,000 AI factories are expected by 2030, up from around
8,000 today.
> Founded in 1993
Digital Twins
> Founder and CEO: Jensen Huang
NVIDIA Omniverse™ is used by thousands of developers, including
> 42,000+ employees in 38 countries leaders in industrial simulation, automation, and robotics.
> Record full-year revenue of $215.9 billion in FY26
Gaming
> 9,800+ granted and pending patent applications worldwide More than 200 million gamers and creators use NVIDIA
GeForce® GPUs.
> 1,300+ projects released under an open source license
> Over 7.5 million developers in the NVIDIA Developer Program Healthcare
> 38,000 global startups in NVIDIA Inception Over 5.5 million developers have downloaded the MONAI framework
for AI in medical imaging.
> No. 1 of “World’s Best Companies of 2025” – TIME
> No. 1 of “Best-Led Companies 2025” – Glassdoor Robotics
More than 2 million developers use NVIDIA technologies to accelerate
> No. 1 of “America’s Most Responsible Companies 2026” – Newsweek
robotics workflows.
NVIDIA in Brief 2026

AI Infrastructure
Computing has transitioned from CPUs to GPUs. For 60 years,
NVIDIA is building the essential infrastructure of the AI era—AI factories
the computer industry relied on general-purpose CPUs. That model
that transform data into intelligence.
reached its limits. NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing, driving a
Through government partnerships with organizations, including the
fundamental shift across chips, systems, software, and applications.
US Department of Energy, and private partnerships with companies
like OpenAI, NVIDIA is powering the buildout of gigawatt-scale,
million-GPU AI factories.
CUDA-X™ and domain libraries supply the parallel algorithms needed
for accelerated computing. NVIDIA develops these libraries in open
Physical AI
collaboration with the ecosystem, enabling open source frameworks,
partners, and developers to extend GPU acceleration into new fields. NVIDIA provides the full-stack computing platform that enables
intelligent machines to perceive, reason, and act in the real world.
NVIDIA’s three-computer solution powers robotics, automotive, and
smart city applications from training to simulation to deployment.
NVIDIA AI supercomputers are AI factories, systems that generate
Companies adopting NVIDIA’s physical AI technologies include Agility
intelligence at scale. They convert energy and data into training,
Robotics, Boston Dynamics, Foxconn, Lilly, Mercedes-Benz, and Uber.
refinement, and inference, powering AI across consumer internet,
science, healthcare, manufacturing, autonomous vehicles, robotics,
quantum computing, telecommunications, and gaming. Open Source
NVIDIA is a frontier AI model builder, accelerating global AI innovation
with open source contributions for developers in every field.
AI is essential infrastructure transforming every industry. AI has
become as foundational as electricity or the internet. Every company NVIDIA’s open model families include NVIDIA Nemotron™ for digital
will use AI. Every country will build AI infrastructure, driving sustained AI, NVIDIA Cosmos™ for physical AI, NVIDIA Isaac™ GR00T for robotics,
global investment in AI factories and the systems that run them. and NVIDIA Clara™ for biomedical AI. The Cosmos and Nemotron
families have surpassed 5 million downloads each on Hugging Face.
Graphics and Consumer
AI advances through scaling laws and full-stack co-design.
Three scaling laws—pretraining, post-training, and inference-time NVIDIA is pushing the boundaries of real-time graphics to enable
reasoning—are driving rapid growth in compute demand and usage. immersive, interactive experiences for gamers and creators.
NVIDIA co-designs architecture, chips, systems, networking, software, NVIDIA Blackwell-powered NVIDIA RTX™ GPUs introduce new levels
and models to increase performance and efficiency while reducing of AI-powered rendering and inference. NVIDIA DLSS 4 technology—
cost per token. available in over 250 games and app—uses AI to render just one out
of every 10 pixels and predict the rest, massively boosting frame rates
and energy efficiency.
Learn more at https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/about-nvidia/
NVIDIA in Brief 2026