Economics of AI | AI trends & strategy | Oxford Economics Skip to content Trending Topic The economics of AI Explore how AI is reshaping the global economy, from productivity and labour markets to investment, infrastructure, and risk. Contact us Featured Webinar AI and the economy: your questions answered IN THIS PAGE: Overview Economics of AI AI trends AI infrastructure Why us What’s next Artificial intelligence (AI) is reshaping the global economy and the business landscape. At Oxford Economics, we combine proprietary economic models with insights from over 450 experts to deliver quantitative analysis of the economic and business impact of AI. We can help you understand what AI means for growth, investment priorities, workforce dynamics, and your competitive positioning. Latest AI research and insights Explore our latest research and reports across three key areas: AI’s economic impact, business adoption and risk, and the infrastructure powering AI. The Economics of AI Impact on productivity, growth and jobs Latest AI trends From AI value creation to governance AI infrastructure Data centre, semiconductor and more How will AI reshape productivity, growth, and jobs? The potential for AI to boost productivity growth is generating both excitement and concern. Optimists point to advances in AI as a catalyst for stronger economic growth. Others fear that large productivity gains from AI will lead to huge disruption to labour markets and work patterns, with knock-on effects into real estate and consumer services. Our analysis goes beyond the headlines to quantify these effects. Drawing on robust economic modelling and data evidence, we assess the impact of AI on the economy, including its influence on productivity, employment and long-term growth. Latest insights Webinar From rocks to racks: Australia’s data centre boom Oxford Economics’ experts will explore how AI adoption will affect workers and productivity, developments from the Middle East conflict, and… Read More Webinar Modelling the macroeconomic impacts of generative AI Artificial intelligence is already being adopted across economies, reshaping how firms work and beginning to feed through to productivity and… Read More Webinar The AI spending wave: sizing the uplift to global enterprise tech budgets This webinar will explore how the surge in spending on AI is reshaping the trajectory of global technology spending, and… Read More Research Briefing AI is driving divergent growth trends across US metros AI is transforming urban economies, with major cities thriving while job growth lags. Discover how innovation is reshaping the job… Read More Research Briefing The cities in Europe primed for the AI revolution Discover the disparities in AI readiness across Europe, highlighting key regions and their potential in the evolving technological landscape. Read More Webinar APAC industry outlook: Navigating Energy Shocks and the AI Boom Asia Pacific industrial production has started 2026 stronger than expected, but supply shortage stemming from the US-Iran conflict are creating… Read More Research Briefing AI and energy pull in opposite directions in Asia Pacific The Middle East conflict is affecting global energy prices and Asia’s industrial production, with challenges for exports and opportunities in… Read More Research Briefing How are CRE investors getting in on the data centre boom? Data centres are evolving rapidly, driven by AI demand. Discover the challenges and opportunities shaping this dynamic investment landscape. Read More View more research How we help Our subscription services incorporate analysis of AI, alongside other critical global trends, into the forecasts, scenarios, and thematic research you can use to monitor the global economy. This helps you assess how AI may shape outcomes across countries, industries, cities and regions, as well as corporate spending, and where you need to position your business to take advantage. Our economists can also provide bespoke modelling and analysis to quantify AI’s potential impact on growth, employment and investment both within industries and across regions. Our suite of expertise and data provides a level of understanding and capability very few companies can replicate. Connect with us to see how we can support you today. Whether AI is likely to act as a tailwind or a headwind for your outlook and investment strategy depends on where you sit. We help you assess the opportunities and risks AI adoption is likely to throw-up to help you navigate the uncertainty and plan with confidence. Contact us From AI value creation to governance AI adoption is accelerating, but many organisations remain in the early stages of experimentation and are still assessing its implications. We help organisations understand the industry trends and how competitive advantage is emerging, while highlighting the evolving risks around workforce disruption, regulation and ethics. We work with leading organisations to develop high-impact reports on AI trends and AI strategy, identifying best practices and emerging opportunities to strengthen their AI thought leadership grounded in evidence. Latest insights Blog Why digital regulation is now an economic growth question in Asia One of the central questions running through technology policy today is deceptively simple: what kind of policy environment allows technology… Read More Blog Dysregulation and the economics of AI policy One of the great privileges of working in economic consulting is the opportunity to see the same issue from many… Read More Consulting Report Digital regulations and the startup ecosystem in Asia New research by Oxford Economics finds that 74% of startups across India, Malaysia, and South Korea, report that digital regulations… Read More Consulting Report The economics of sovereign AI: balancing autonomy, innovation, and growth in the Asia-Pacific Oxford Economics was commissioned by the AI Adoption Initiative to develop a research report that supports policymakers as they navigate… Read More Consulting Report From Pilot to Production: How to Operate AI at Scale In this research report from Coastal and Oxford Economics, 800 U.S. business and technology executives were surveyed to understand how… Read More Blog The work AI can’t do (but I can) There are reasons for young workers to be optimistic. History suggests the job market will eventually adapt to accommodate AI. Like every major technological shift before it, this transformation… Read More Consulting Report Adobe 2026 AI and Digital Trends Report For Adobe’s 16th annual AI and Digital Trends research, Oxford Economics surveyed 3,000 executives and practitioners and 4,000 customers globally… Read More Consulting Report The CX Leaders Playbook Oxford Economics, in collaboration with SAP, surveyed 300 senior decision-makers and strategists to better understand how leading organizations are transforming… Read More View more research How we help We partner with leading organisations to design and deliver original, evidence-based research programmes on AI adoption, strategy, and risk. Our approach combines large-scale executive and consumer surveys, in-depth interviews, and econometric analysis to produce insights that go beyond opinion and stand up to scrutiny. Recent programmes include collaborations with organisations such as Adobe, SAP, Cognizant, EY, KPMG, Zebra Technologies, and PwC, covering themes including AI readiness, governance, workforce transformation, geopolitical competitiveness, and enterprise value creation. Book a discussion with our experts today. If you are looking to strengthen your AI thought leadership with robust, independent research – or need a clearer view of how AI adoption is reshaping your sector – our teams can design a programme tailored to your objectives. Book a discussion The hidden infrastructure and investment behind AI growth AI’s rapid expansion depends on a complex and evolving global infrastructure that includes data centers, cloud computing networks, hardware and software developers, and energy systems. As demand for AI accelerates, so too does the need for investment in capacity, alongside growing demand on global energy systems and supply chains. We provide actionable insight into these underlying dynamics, helping you understand where constraints may emerge, how investment will evolve, and where opportunities are likely to arise across the AI value chain. This includes leveraging our place-based and industrial expertise to highlighting which places and industries are seeing the main developments. Latest Insights Webinar From rocks to racks: Australia’s data centre boom Oxford Economics’ experts will explore how AI adoption will affect workers and productivity, developments from the Middle East conflict, and… Read More Research Briefing Data centres are driving industry growth in Australia Australia’s industry growth has softened, but resilient business investment, data centre development, and a mining rebound are helping support activity… Read More Blog Data Centre boom raises costs across Construction markets AI-driven data center growth is driving up construction demand, costs, and labor pressures. Read More Research Briefing How are CRE investors getting in on the data centre boom? Data centres are evolving rapidly, driven by AI demand. Discover the challenges and opportunities shaping this dynamic investment landscape. Read More Research Briefing Asia Chip Export Index May 2026: From consumer cycles to compute demand Our proprietary Asia Chip Export Index surged in March, by 80.7% y/y in value and by 28.3% y/y in volume…. Read More Webinar Europe’s AI transition: the cities at the forefront of the boom This webinar will explore how the rapid expansion of AI is reshaping cities and regional economies across Europe. Drawing on… Read More Research Briefing The rural shift in Europe’s data centre development The data centre landscape in Europe is evolving, with a shift towards remote locations driven by demand for local facilities… Read More Research Briefing Chip sector has enough helium, for now Helium shortages are rattling chip supply chains—but with reserves and pricing power on their side, can chipmakers stay ahead of… Read More View more research How we help We provide analysis across the full AI infrastructure value chain, from semiconductor supply and data centre construction to energy demand and grid capacity. These insights are embedded within our syndicated services, alongside national, sectoral, and subnational forecasts, including data centre outlooks within our construction and industry coverage. In addition, we have supported clients including technology companies, energy market participants, and industry bodies in quantifying the economic contribution of data centres and related infrastructure. Contact us If you need to understand what AI-driven investment means for a specific market, region, or supply chain – or communicate that impact to stakeholders – we can help you build the evidence. Contact us today Why Oxford Economics for AI research Integrated models that connect the full picture Our strength lies in linking the global economy across multiple dimensions. Our forecasting infrastructure connects countries, sectors, and local markets through key economic relationships. This integrated framework allows us to assess how AI-related changes ripple across economies, providing you with the full picture. Independence that stands up to scrutiny Our work is produced independently, powered by proprietary models and the expertise of our award-winning experts. This is why it is trusted by central banks, regulators, multilateral institutions, and the world’s largest investors. When your AI analysis needs to support high-stakes decisions, our work stands up to scrutiny. Deep AI subject matter expertise We have been quantifying the economic impact of technology and automation for many years. Our work spans AI forecasting, AI readiness indices, AI-driven labour market disruption, adoption trends, and data centre investment and energy demand. We have also delivered AI thought leadership programmes for some of the world’s most recognised brands. The economics of AI is not a new topic for us. It is one of the areas where our work is well established and where we continue to be at the forefront of research. Flexible ways to work with us We offer a range of ways to support your objectives, from subscription-based forecasts that incorporate AI analysis, to bespoke research programmes under your brand, independent economic impact assessments, and scenario modelling and consulting support. We work with you to define the right approach for your needs. How we can support you? Whether you are assessing the economic impact of AI, exploring AI investment trends or strengthening your thought leadership on artificial intelligence, our team can help. Speak to our experts to explore how Oxford Economics can support your objectives. Fill in the form and we will be in touch to arrange a discussion. Sign up to our newsletter Also of Interest AI and robots in 2025: the robotics revolution... Drive Growth. Strategy. US AI Tracker: The GDP dividend; a jobs dilemma Close Close X Services you might be interested in Australian Construction Australian Real Estate Australian Consulting Services X Close